Server: Netscape-Commerce/1.12
Date: Tuesday, 26-Nov-96 00:06:34 GMT
Last-modified: Thursday, 15-Jun-95 00:38:19 GMT
Content-length: 3135
Content-type: text/html



PROGRAMMING METHODOLOGY GROUP












 Barbara Liskov,NEC Professor of Software Science and Engineering
Liuba Shrira,Research Associate






The Programming Methodology group is focused on distributed
computing. Specific challenges include making it easier for
programmers to implement distributed applications, and
supporting secure and convenient data- and code-sharing in
distributed environments.

Our current research is illustrated by Thor, an
object-oriented database system. Thor provides users with a
universe of objects that are stored reliably and are highly
likely to be accessible when needed; to achieve these
goals, object storage is replicated. Objects in the
universe can be shared by client programs written in
different programming languages; controlled sharing is
provided via an access control mechanism.

Clients can locate objects either by navigation or through
queries. Each object has an encapsulated state and a set of
methods. Users can extend Thor by defining new object types
and new implementations of these types; the definitions are
given in a new object-oriented programming language called
Theta. Clients interact with Thor by calling methods of
objects; calls run inside Thor to ensure that the objects
cannot be corrupted by misbehaving client programs, which
might be implemented in languages with unsafe features
(such as explicit pointer arithmetic). Thor is being
installed on DEC Alphas connected by a local area network.

Other work includes Harp, a highly available file system
that runs inside a network file server such as NFS; clients
continue to use the file server as usual, but files are
replicated at several server machines. If one machine
crashes, the system is reconfigured on-the-fly and users
still have access to their files. The replication technique
used in Harp is also being used in Thor.

Future plans include the use of Thor as a basis for
distributed implementation of applications. Such
applications are now based on the client-server model, in
which components explicitly exchange messages. We will soon
conduct experiments to confirm our belief that practical
distributed applications will become easier by using Thor
as a "blackboard" on which clients write information, such
as a request for a kind of service.








